{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\deff0\deflang1033{\fonttbl{\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Calibri;}{\f1\fnil\fcharset2 Symbol;}}
{\*\generator Msftedit 5.41.21.2510;}\viewkind4\uc1\pard{\pntext\f0 1.\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlbody\pnf0\pnindent0\pnstart1\pndec{\pntxta.}}
\fi-360\li720\sa200\sl276\slmult1\lang9\f0\fs22 What is HTML5? Answer :- HTML5 is latest version of HTML. The beauty of HTML5 is it covers features HTML,CSS and Javascript. By using HTML5 we can deliver almost everything which want to do online without support of external softwares e.g. browser plugins. The applications written in HTML5 will work without Internet. We can build complx applications by using HTML5.\par
{\pntext\f0 2.\tab}What is < !DOCTYPE>? Is it necessary to use in HTML5? Answer :- The < !DOCTYPE> is an instruction to the web browser about what version of HTML the page is written in. This tag is unpaired tag and it is not case sensetive.The < !DOCTYPE> declaration must be the very first thing in HTML5 document, before the tag. \par
{\pntext\f0 3.\tab}List out the new features of HTML5? Answer :- New semantic tags like <header><footer>,<nav> etc. Video,audio,Canvas element for 2D drawing , Input tag e.g. email,url,number,range,date pickers,search,color.Form elements :- datalist,keygen,output, Form attributes like autocomplete,list,multiple etc. Supports local storage.\par
{\pntext\f0 4.\tab}List out the advantages of HTML5? Answer :- Do less perform more, Mutuality,cleaner mark-up /Improved code. Improved semantics,Elegant forms and web pages, offline application cache.\par
{\pntext\f0 5.\tab}What is Canvas? How to write a Canvas ? Answer :- It is html element by using this we can draw graphics.  This is paired tag. This html element is act like container and in order to perform drawing we need to Javascript. We need to create html element like <canvas id="myCanvas" width="200" height="100"></canvas> and need to access the element using Id or any selector and by using getContext we will set the type of graphics e.g. var a = document.getElementById("myCanvas").getContext("2d"); and the we can perform action  like a.arc(95, 50, 40, 0, 2).\par
{\pntext\f0 6.\tab}What is HTML5 Geolocation? How to use it ? Answer :- HTML5 Geolocation is used to locate a user\rquote s position.The HTML5 Geolocation API is used to get the geographical position of a user. As this involves privacy, postion is not available unless user apprves it. The method "getCurrentPosition()" is used to get the user\rquote s position. \par
\pard\li360\sa200\sl276\slmult1\par
The example below is a simple Geolocation example returning the latitude and longitude of the user\rquote s position:\par
\par
<script>\par
var x=document.getElementById("demo");\par
function getLocation()\par
\{\par
if (navigator.geolocation)\par
\{\par
navigator.geolocation.getCurrentPosition(showPosition);\par
\}\par
else\{x.innerHTML="Geolocation is not supported by this browser.";\}\par
\}\par
function showPosition(position)\par
\{\par
x.innerHTML="Latitude: " + position.coords.latitude +"\par
Longitude: " + position.coords.longitude;\par
\}\par
</script>\par
7.     What are the rules established for HTML5? Answer :- New features should be based on HTML, CSS, DOM, and JavaScript.Reduce the need for external plugins (like Flash),Better error handling,More markup to replace scripting,HTML5 should be device independent,The development process should be visible to the public.\par
8. What is the sessionStorage Object in HTML? How to create and access? Answer :-\par
The sessionStorage object stores the data for one session. The data is deleted when the user closes the browser window. like below we can create and access a sessionStorage here we created \ldblquote blogName\rdblquote  as session\par
<script type="text/javascript">\par
sessionStorage.blogName="OnlineInterviewQuestions";\par
document.write(sessionStorage.name);\par
</script>\par
9. What is the difference between Html5 application cache and regulate Html browser cache? Answer :- \par
The new HTML5 specification allows browsers to prefetch some or all of website assets such as HTML files, images, CSS, JavaScript, and so on, while the client is connected. It is not necessary for the user to have accessed this content previously, for fetching this content. In other words, application cache can prefetch pages that have not been visited at all and are thereby unavailable in the regular browser cache. Prefetching files can speed up the site\rquote s performance, though you are of course using bandwidth to download those files initially.\par
10. What are the new Apis provided by the Html 5 standard? Give a brief description of each Answer :- \par
\pard{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf1\pnindent0{\pntxtb\'B7}}\fi-360\li1080\sa200\sl276\slmult1 Canvas : Canvas consists of a drawable region defined in HTML code with height and width attributes. JavaScript code may access the area through a full set of drawing functions similar to other common 2D APIs, thus allowing for dynamically generated graphics. Some anticipated uses of the canvas include building graphs, animations, games, and image composition.\par
{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}Timed media playback\par
{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}Offline storage database\par
{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}Document editing\par
{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}Drag-and-drop\par
{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}Cross-document messaging\par
{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}Browser history management\par
{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}MIME type and protocol handler registration\par
\pard\li360\sa200\sl276\slmult1 11. What is the use of LocalStorage in HTML5? Answer :-\par
Before HTML5 LocalStores was done with cookies. Cookies are not very good for large amounts of data, because they are passed on by every request to the server, so it was very slow and in-effective.\par
In HTML5, the data is NOT passed on by every server request, but used ONLY when asked for. It is possible to store large amounts of data without affecting the website\rquote s performance.and The data is stored in different areas for different websites, and a website can only access data stored by itself.\par
And for creating localstores just need to call localStorage object like below we are storing name and address\par
<script type="text/javascript">\par
localStorage.name="Nitesh";\par
localStorage.address="Pune India";\par
document.write(localStorage.address);\par
</script>\par
12. Can you list the new input type attributes in HTML5?\par
\pard{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf1\pnindent0{\pntxtb\'B7}}\fi-360\li1080\sa200\sl276\slmult1 tel -The input is of type telephone number\par
{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}search -The input field is a search field\par
{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}url -a URL\par
{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}email -One or more email addresses\par
{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}datetime -A date and/or time\par
{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}date -A date\par
{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}month -A month\par
{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}week -A week\par
{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}time -The input value is of type time\par
{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}datetime-local -A local date/time\par
{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}number -A number.\par
{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}range -A number in a given range.\par
{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}color -A hexadecimal color, like #82345c\par
{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}placeholder -Specifies a short hint that describes the expected value of an input field.\par
\pard\li360\sa200\sl276\slmult1 13.  What is the difference between HTML and HTML5\par
Answer :- \par
\pard{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf1\pnindent0{\pntxtb\'B7}}\fi-360\li1080\sa200\sl276\slmult1 The main difference is Video and audio is not part of HTML however these 2 are integral part of HTML5.\par
{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}The build up capacity of HTML5 in application stage is greater than HTML. means it covers HTML,CSS and Javascript in one go at most of the cases.\par
{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}Vector graphics is also an integral part of HTML5 such as SVG and canvas while vector graphics is possible in HTML with the help of various technologies such as VML, Silver-light, Flash, etc.\par
{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}In HTML, browser cache can be used as temporary storage. In case of HTML5, application cache, web SQL database, and web storage is used.\par
{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}HTML doesn\rquote t allows JavaScript to run in web browser, it runs in same thread as browser interface. HTML5 allows JavaScript to run in background that is possible because of JS Web worker API in HTML5.\par
{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}HTML works smoothly with all old browsers while most of the modern web browsers have started supporting HTML5 specifications. These browsers include: Firefox, Mozilla, Chrome, Opera, Safari, etc. \par
\pard\li360\sa200\sl276\slmult1 14. How many New Markup Elements you know in HTML5\par
I am aware of most frequetly used 10 mark up elements in HTML 5. \par
15.What are the New Media Elements in HTML5? is canvas element used in HTML5 \par
Video and audio are new media element in HTML5, yes canvas used in HMTL5 \par
15. Do you know New Input Type Attribute in HTML5\par
Yes I am aware of new Input type atrribute in HTML5 , e.g, <input type=number>,<input type=tel> etc. \par
16. How to add video and audio in HTML5\par
<video width="400" controls>\par
  <source src="mov_bbb.mp4" type="video/mp4">\par
  <source src="mov_bbb.ogg" type="video/ogg">\par
  Your browser does not support HTML5 video.\par
</video>\par
\par
<audio controls>\par
  <source src="horse.ogg" type="audio/ogg">\par
  <source src="horse.mp3" type="audio/mpeg">\par
Your browser does not support the audio element.\par
</audio> \par
17.What is the use of localStorage in HTML5 ?\par
Local storage used to store the data in browser windows. Its same as cookies but difference is it will available after we closed the window. it is stairing data in key value pair.\par
Local storage is available in the browser to all windows with the same origin (domain). Data stored in the local storage is also available after the window has been closed. The next time a window is opened and loads the page from the same origin, the page can access the stored values there again.\par
18. What is the sessionStorage Object in html5 ? How to create and access ?\par
sessionStorage Object is used to store the data , this object will store the data as long as browser is open. Once browser is clsoed this data will be deleted. Multiple windows with same URL.can not see the data of each other. Pop up window can able to see the session storage data. \par
19.Why html5 doctype does not have a DTD definition?Are HTML 5 tags case sensitive?\par
HTML5 is not based on SGML (Stanard Generalized markup language) so it don't require DTD (Data Type Definition) . Yes HTML5 tags are case sensitive. \par
20. What is the difference between Canvas and SVG graphics?\par
SVG is like a "draw" program and Canvas is like a "paint" program\par
Canvas :-\par
\pard{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf1\pnindent0{\pntxtb\'B7}}\fi-360\li1080\sa200\sl276\slmult1 Pixel based (Dynamic .png)\par
{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}Single HTML element.(Inspect element in Developer tool. You can see only canvas tag)\par
{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}Modified through script only\par
{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}Event model/user interaction is granular (x,y)\par
{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}Performance is better with smaller surface, a larger number of objects (>10k), or both\par
\pard\li360\sa200\sl276\slmult1 SVG :-\par
\pard{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf1\pnindent0{\pntxtb\'B7}}\fi-360\li1080\sa200\sl276\slmult1 Shape based\par
{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}Multiple graphical elements, which become part of the DOM\par
{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}Modified through script and CSS\par
{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}Event model/user interaction is abstracted (rect, path)\par
{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}Performance is better with smaller number of objects (<10k), a larger surface, or both \par
\pard\li360\sa200\sl276\slmult1 21. What is the difference between a <span> and a <div>?\par
<Span> is block level elements that means it will occupied required width.\par
<div> Is inline element , that means it will occupied 100% width.\par
<div> will be used as container of differnt elements.\par
\par
}
 